Document the alpha Composition Functions feature (#298)
crossplane/docs: content/master/guides/composition-functions.md

---
title: Composition Functions
state: alpha
---

Composition Functions allow you to supplement or replace your Compositions with
advanced logic. You can build a Function using general purpose programming
languages such as Go or Python, or relevant tools such as Helm, kustomize, or
CUE. Functions compliment contemporary "Patch and Transform" (P&T) style

> Composition - it's possible to use only P&T, only Functions, or a mix of both in

Reviewer: Sentences shorter than 25 words improve readability. 

https://developers.google.com/style/accessibility#ease-of-reading
http://web.mit.edu/juggler/www/ocw/ocw_lectures/class01/lecture_shorten_sentences.htm
https://insidegovuk.blog.gov.uk/2014/08/04/sentence-length-why-25-words-is-our-limit/

the same Composition.

```yaml
apiVersion: apiextensions.crossplane.io/v1
kind: Composition
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  compositeTypeRef:
    apiVersion: database.example.org/v1alpha1
    kind: XPostgreSQLInstance
  functions:
  - name: my-cool-Function
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xpkg.upbound.io/my-cool-Function:0.1.0
```

A Composition Function is a short-lived OCI container that tells Crossplane how
to reconcile a Composite Resource (XR). The preceding example shows a minimal
`Composition` that uses a Composition Function. Note that it has a `functions`
array rather than the typical P&T style array of `resources`.

> ## Enabling Functions

Author: I'll update, but I'm curious about the decision. Why use sentence case? I feel like I more commonly see title case.

> ## Enabling Functions

Author: I notice the APA style guide referenced by the docs style guide points out title case as something that should be used for "all headings within a work", but doesn't mention that for sentence case.

* https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/title-case
* https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/sentence-case

> ## Enabling Functions

Reviewer: Common documentation styling is sentence case.

https://developers.google.com/style/capitalization#capitalization-in-titles-and-headings
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization#sentence-style-capitalization-in-titles-and-headings

> ## Enabling Functions

Author: Thanks. Links like this would be helpful to include in the style guide. I know the _decision_ is captured in the guide, but it helps a lot to be able to read up the rationale behind the decision.

> ## Enabling Functions

Reviewer: The docs will enable [Vale](https://vale.sh/) soon, using the [Upbound Vale library](https://github.com/upbound/vale).

This will put most of these checks as part of CI and provide links to the justification for the rules. This is hinted at in the contrib guide, but not enforced-
https://docs.crossplane.io/v1.10/contributing/docs/#style-guidelines

To enable support for Composition Functions you must:

 * Enable the alpha feature flag in Crossplane.

>  * Deploy a runner that is responsible for running Functions.

Reviewer: the main reason is that it's easy to omit a word when reading. If you read "do not" you can omit "not". If you read "don't" you won't omit a word.

https://developers.google.com/style/contractions
https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/documentation/styleguide/#contractions

>  * Deploy a runner that is responsible for running Functions.

Author: Interestingly the GitLab docs seem to contradict the Google docs (at least, they specifically call out that you should use "do not" rather than "don't").

I've updated this page to use contractions everywhere I could, but I still feel that _requiring them everywhere_ is a bit heavy handed and would prefer to recommend them.

>  * Deploy a runner that is responsible for running Functions.

Reviewer: My preference is contractions. We are still building the Crossplane style guide, but I feel strongly about contractions.

```console
kubectl create namespace crossplane-system

helm repo add crossplane-master https://charts.crossplane.io/master/
helm repo update

# Find the latest RC build of Crossplane - e.g. 1.11.0-rc.0.274.g51a07e50
helm search repo crossplane-master/crossplane --devel

RC_VERSION="v1.11.0-rc.0.274.g51a07e50"
helm install crossplane --namespace crossplane-system crossplane-master/crossplane \
    --devel --version ${RC_VERSION} \
    --set "args={--debug,--enable-composition-Functions}" \
    --set "xfn.enabled=true" \
    --set "xfn.args={--debug}"
```

The preceding Helm command installs Crossplane with the Composition Functions

> feature flag enabled, and with the reference "`xfn`" Composition Function runner

Author: The quotes here are because I'm introducing a name. Would they make more sense if I dropped the backticks here and rephrased to "the reference Composition Function runner, named "xfn""?

https://www.grammarly.com/blog/quotation-marks-around-a-single-word/

> deployed as a sidecar pod. You can confirm Composition Functions are enabled by

Author: Ack. I'm going to phrase this slightly differently but will avoid the passive voice.

looking for a log line:

> ```console

Author: This is already `console`. Are you suggesting something else?

> ```console

Reviewer: I don't know what this tagged, must have been a mistake, resolving.

$ kubectl -n crossplane-system logs -l app=crossplane
{"level":"info","ts":1674535093.36186,"logger":"crossplane","msg":"Alpha feature enabled","flag":"EnableAlphaCompositionFunctions"}
```

You should see the log line emitted shortly after Crossplane starts.

## Using Functions

To use Composition Functions you must:

1. Find one or more Composition Functions, or write your own.
2. Create a `Composition` that uses your Functions.
3. Create an XR that uses your `Composition`.

Your XRs, claims, and providers don't need to be updated or otherwise aware
of Composition Functions to use them. They need only use a `Composition` that
includes one or more entries in its `spec.functions` array.

Composition Functions are designed to be run in a pipeline, so you can 'stack'
several of them together. Each Function is passed the output of the previous
Function as its input. Functions can also be used in conjunction with P&T

> Composition (i.e. a `spec.resources` array). 

Author: Will update, but this is another case where some context around why would be helpful.

> Composition (i.e. a `spec.resources` array). 

Reviewer: Word choices should be only English and simple to be inclusive for global audiences and non-native speakers.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/word-choice/use-us-spelling-avoid-non-english-words
https://developers.google.com/style/abbreviations#dont-use

    - name: rds-instance
      base:
        apiVersion: rds.aws.upbound.io/v1beta1
        kind: Instance
        spec:
          forProvider:
            dbName: exmaple
            instanceClass: db.t3.micro
            region: us-west-2
            skipFinalSnapshot: true
            username: exampleuser
            engine: postgres
            engineVersion: "12"
      patches:
        - fromFieldPath: spec.parameters.storageGB
          toFieldPath: spec.forProvider.allocatedStorage
      connectionDetails:
        - type: FromFieldPath
          name: username
          fromFieldPath: spec.forProvider.username
        - type: FromConnectionSecretKey
          name: password
          fromConnectionSecretKey: attribute.password
  functions:
  - name: rds-instance-password
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xpkg.upbound.io/provider-aws-xfns/random-rds-password:v0.1.0
  - name: compose-dbsecuritygroup
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xpkg.upbound.io/example-org/compose-rds-securitygroup:v0.9.0
```

Use `kubectl explain` to explore the configuration options available when using
Composition Functions, or take a look at the detailed example below.

> {{< expand "Explore Composition Function configuration options." >}}

Author: I removed the period, but I'm not sure what the benefit of changing "Explore" to "View" is. Can you clarify?

> {{< expand "Explore Composition Function configuration options." >}}

Reviewer: Explore is a more complex word and implies something more than just "here is the output". Using "view" is more straightforward and simple.

https://developers.google.com/style/translation#clear-language

          cpu: 250m
      # Defaults to 'Isolated' - i.e an isolated network namespace with no
      # network access. Use 'Runner' to allow a Function access to the runner's
      # (e.g. the xfn container's) network namespace.
      network:
        policy: Runner
      # How long the Function may run before it's killed. Defaults to 20s.
      # Keep in mind the Function pipeline is typically invoked once every
      # 30 to 60 seconds.
      timeout: 30s
    # An arbitrary Kubernetes resource. Passed to the Function as the config
    # block of its FunctionIO. Doesn't need to exist as a Custom Resource (CR),
    # since this resource doesn't exist by itself in the API server but must be
    # a valid Kubernetes resource (i.e. have an apiVersion and kind).
    config:
      apiVersion: database.example.org/v1alpha1
      kind: Config
      metadata:
        name: cloudsql
      spec:
        version: POSTGRES_9_6
```
{{< /expand >}}

Use `kubectl describe <xr-kind> <xr-name>` to debug Composition Functions. Look
for status conditions and events. Most Functions will emit events associated
with the XR if they experience issues.

## Building a Function

>  Crossplane is relatively unopinionated about how a Composition Function is

Author: I'd prefer to keep "unopinionated" here. Anecdotal/subjective, but I feel like it's more common than "doesn't have opinions".

>  Crossplane is relatively unopinionated about how a Composition Function is

Reviewer: Unopinated is a more complex word, enough so that the Chrome spell checker doesn't recognize it. Being straight forward with simple language of "Doesn't have" is more internationally inclusive.

 implemented. Functions must:

 * Be packaged as an OCI image, where the `ENTRYPOINT` is the Function.
 * Accept input in the form of a `FunctionIO` document on stdin.
 * Return the `FunctionIO` they were passed, optionally mutated, on stdout.
 * Run within the constraints specified by the Composition that includes them
   (e.g. timeouts, compute, network access).

This means Functions may be written using a general purpose programming language
like Python, Go, or TypeScript. They may also be implemented using a shell
script, or an existing tool like Helm or Kustomize.

### FunctionIO

When a Composition Function runner like `xfn` runs your Function it will write
`FunctionIO` to its stdin. A `FunctionIO` is a Kubernetes style YAML manifest.

> It's not a custom resource (it never gets created in the API server) but it does

Author: Why remove this word? Are you going for "but it follows Kubernetes conventions" rather than "but it does follow Kubernetes conventions"? If so, can you clarify why?

> It's not a custom resource (it never gets created in the API server) but it does

Reviewer: Yes, the line becomes "it follows Kubernetes conventions", which is shorter and simpler. "Does" is unnecessary. 

That would be fine for more prose-style writing but is less useful for technical documentation that intends to be straight forward without additional color.

      metadata:
        name: platform-ref-gcp-db-p9wrj
    connectionDetails:
    - name: privateIP
      value: 10.135.0.3
  resources:
  - name: db-instance
    resource:
      apiVersion: sql.gcp.upbound.io/v1beta1
      kind: DatabaseInstance
      metadata:
        name: platform-ref-gcp-db-p9wrj-tvvtg
    connectionDetails:
    - name: privateIP
      value: 10.135.0.3
desired:
  composite:
    resource:
      apiVersion: database.example.org/v1alpha1
      kind: XPostgreSQLInstance
      metadata:
        name: platform-ref-gcp-db-p9wrj
    connectionDetails:
    - name: privateIP
      value: 10.135.0.3
  resources:
  - name: db-instance
    resource:
      apiVersion: sql.gcp.upbound.io/v1beta1
      kind: DatabaseInstance
      metadata:
        name: platform-ref-gcp-db-p9wrj-tvvtg
  - name: db-user
    resource:
      apiVersion: sql.gcp.upbound.io/v1beta1
      kind: User
      metadata:
        name: platform-ref-gcp-db-p9wrj-z8lpz
    connectionDetails:
    - name: password
      type: FromValue
      value: very-secret
    readinessChecks:
    - type: None
results:
- severity: Normal
  message: "Successfully composed GCP SQL user"
```

> The `config` object is copied verbatim from the `Composition`. It will match

Author: I'd prefer to keep the original phrasing here.

The suggestion is incorrect - it doesn't copy the Composition but rather the `config` object from the Composition. I could replace "verbatim" with "unchanged" if use of that word is the concern, but I'd rather leave it as is.

> The `config` object is copied verbatim from the `Composition`. It will match

Reviewer: Saying "copies" and "is copied verbatim" is the same. Copying implies it's the same without modification.  Using "unchanged" is superfluous.

resources that _actually exist_ in the API server in the `observed` state. The
`observed` state also includes any observed connection details.

The `desired` state of the XR and composed resources is how your Function tells
Crossplane what it should do. Crossplane will 'bootstrap' the initial desired
state passed to a Function pipeline with:

* A copy of the observed state of the XR.
* A copy of the observed state of any existing composed resources.
* Any new composed resources or modifications to observed resources produced by
  P&T Composition (i.e. the `resources` array).

When adding a new desired resource to the `desired.resources` array you do not
need to:

* Update the XR's resource references.
* Add any composition annotations like `crossplane.io/composite-resource-name`.
* Set the XR as a controller/owner reference of the desired resource.

Crossplane will take care of all of these for you. It will not do anything else,
including setting a sensible `metadata.name` for the new composed resource -
this is up to your Function.

Finally, the `results` array allows your Function to surface events and debug

> logs on the XR. The following result severities are supported:

Author: > Results support the following severities

I've rephrased as above. I'd like to be more specific than "functions" here, and we call them severities, not levels.

* `Normal` emits a debug log and a `Normal` event associated with the XR.
* `Warning` emits a debug log and a `Warning` event associated with the XR.
* `Fatal` stops the Composition process before any changes are applied.

When Crossplane encounters a `Fatal` result it will finish running the

> Composition Function pipeline, then immediately return an error without applying

Author: How strongly do you feel about this? I prefer the way it currently reads.

> Composition Function pipeline, then immediately return an error without applying

Reviewer: The original sentence is too long.
Immediately is a "weasel word" (https://github.com/btford/write-good, https://zoemmccarthy.com/writing/dont-let-weasel-words-suck-the-life-from-your-writing)

Using "immediately" doesn't add additional value to the sentence. 

Specifying _who_ is returning an error ("Crossplane") makes the sentence active voice.

any changes to the API server. This error will be surfaced as a `Warning` event,
a debug log, and by setting the `Synced` status condition of the XR to "False".

> The above example is heavily edited for brevity. Expand the below example for a

Author: Thanks. I've been trying to do this, but missed this one. It would be useful to add this to the style guide.

          name: platform-ref-gcp-db-p9wrj
          uid: 96623f41-be2e-4eda-84d4-9668b48e284d
        resourceVersion: "9951"
        uid: ab5dafbe-2bc8-47ea-8b5b-9bcb40183e45
      spec:
        forProvider:
          instance: platform-ref-gcp-db-p9wrj-tvvtg
          project: example
        providerConfigRef:
          name: default
    # Any desired connection details for the new db-user composed resource.
    # Desired connection details can be FromValue, FromFieldPath, or
    # FromConnectionSecretKey, just like their P&T Composition equivalents.
    connectionDetails:
    - name: password
      type: FromValue
      value: very-secret
    # Any desired readiness checks for the new db-user composed resource.
    # Desired readiness checks can be NonEmpty, MatchString, MatchInteger, or
    # None, just like their P&T Composition equivalents.    
    readinessChecks:
    - type: None
# An optional array of results.
results:
- severity: Normal
  message: "Successfully composed GCP SQL user"
```
{{< /expand >}}

### An Example Function

You can write a Composition Function using any programming language that can be
containerized, or existing tools like Helm or Kustomize.

> Here's a simple Python Composition Function that does not create any new desired

Author: Good catch - this is something I try to avoid.

        result_warning(Functionio, "Cannot get quote: {}".format(err))
        write_Functionio(Functionio)

    # Annotate all desired resources with our quote.
    for r in Functionio["desired"]["resources"]:
        if "resource" not in r:
            # This shouldn't happen - add a warning and continue.
            result_warning(
                Functionio,
                "Desired resource {name} missing resource body".format(
                    name=r.get("name", "unknown")
                ),
            )
            continue

        if "metadata" not in r["resource"]:
            r["resource"]["metadata"] = {}

        if "annotations" not in r["resource"]["metadata"]:
            r["resource"]["metadata"]["annotations"] = {}

        if ANNOTATION_KEY_QUOTE in r["resource"]["metadata"]["annotations"]:
            continue

        r["resource"]["metadata"]["annotations"][ANNOTATION_KEY_AUTHOR] = author
        r["resource"]["metadata"]["annotations"][ANNOTATION_KEY_QUOTE] = quote

    write_Functionio(Functionio)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

To build this function you'll need its `requirements.txt` and a `Dockerfile`:

> {{< expand "The Function's requirements." >}}

Author: Is removal of the apostrophe required to make the expand block work, or a copy edit?

> {{< expand "The Function's requirements." >}}

Reviewer: It was just to fix the expand. The fix for that is now in master. Feel free to revert this

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```
set language for highlighting.

Author: I don't think a `requirements.txt` file is Python.

Reviewer: It's not, but setting python as the highlighter displays better.
Current:
![Screenshot 2023-01-31 at 5 32 40 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10537576/215898900-507cc614-79f6-4697-92f1-29b61c0ce7ad.png)

Setting ` ```python `
![Screenshot 2023-01-31 at 5 32 50 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10537576/215898960-3f682a1b-a6b0-41af-beb5-570268cfa0a3.png)

Author: Okay, I've changed this.

certifi==2022.12.7
charset-normalizer==3.0.1
click==8.1.3
idna==3.4
pathspec==0.10.3
platformdirs==2.6.2
PyYAML==6.0
requests==2.28.2
tomli==2.0.1
urllib3==1.26.14
```
{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "The Function's Dockerfile." >}}
```Dockerfile
FROM debian:11-slim AS build
RUN apt-get update && \
    apt-get install --no-install-suggests --no-install-recommends --yes python3-venv && \
    python3 -m venv /venv && \
    /venv/bin/pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel

FROM build AS build-venv
COPY requirements.txt /requirements.txt
RUN /venv/bin/pip install --disable-pip-version-check -r /requirements.txt

FROM gcr.io/distroless/python3-debian11
COPY --from=build-venv /venv /venv
COPY . /app
WORKDIR /app
ENTRYPOINT ["/venv/bin/python3", "main.py"]
```
{{< /expand >}}

Create and push the Function just like you would any Docker image:

> ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

kind: Composition
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  compositeTypeRef:
    apiVersion: database.example.org/v1alpha1
    kind: XPostgreSQLInstance
  resources:
    - name: rds-instance
      base:
        apiVersion: rds.aws.upbound.io/v1beta1
        kind: Instance
        spec:
          forProvider:
            dbName: exmaple
            instanceClass: db.t3.micro
            region: us-west-2
            skipFinalSnapshot: true
            username: exampleuser
            engine: postgres
            engineVersion: "12"
      patches:
        - fromFieldPath: spec.parameters.storageGB
          toFieldPath: spec.forProvider.allocatedStorage
      connectionDetails:
        - type: FromFieldPath
          name: username
          fromFieldPath: spec.forProvider.username
        - type: FromConnectionSecretKey
          name: password
          fromConnectionSecretKey: attribute.password
  functions:
  - name: quotable
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xpkg.upbound.io/example-org/xfn-quotable-simple:v0.1.0
      network:
        policy: Runner
```

### Tips for New Functions

Here are some things to keep in mind when building a Composition Function:

> * Your Function may be running as part of a pipeline. This means it's very

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your Function may be running as part of a pipeline. This means it's
```
unnecessary adverb. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/word-choice/use-simple-words-concise-sentences

Author: This would be a good one to add to the style guide.

>   important that your Function pass through any desired state that it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  important that your Function pass through any desired state that it's
```

  unconcerned with. If your Function is passed a desired composed resource and

>   does not return that composed resource in its output, it will be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  doesn't return that composed resource in its output, it will be deleted.
```

  Crossplane considers the desired state of the XR and any composed resources to
  be whatever `FunctionIO` is returned by the last Function in the pipeline.
* Crossplane won't set a `metadata.name` for your desired resources resources.
  It's a good practice to match P&T Composition's behavior by setting
  `metadata.generateName: "name-of-the-xr-"` for any new desired resources.

> * Don't blindly add new entries to the desired resources array every time your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid adding new entries to the desired resources array every time your
```
"blindly" isn't inclusive language.

  function is invoked. Remember to check whether your desired resource is
  already in the `observed` and/or `desired` objects. You may need to update it
  rather than create it.
* Don't bypass providers. Composition Functions are designed to tell Crossplane
  how to orchestrate managed resources - not to directly orchestrate external
  systems.
* Include your function name and version in any results you return to aid in
  debugging.

> * Write tests for your function! Pass it a `FunctionIO` on stdin in and ensure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Write tests for your function. Pass it a `FunctionIO` on stdin in and ensure
```

Don't use exclamation points. https://developers.google.com/style/exclamation-points

  it returns the expected `FunctionIO` on stdout.

> * Keep your Functions fast and lightweight. Remember that Crossplane will run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Keep your Functions fast and lightweight. Remember that Crossplane runs
```
present tense

>   them approximately once every 30-60 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  them every 30 to 60 seconds.
```
Don't use "approximately", be precise, even with a range.

Author: Why? The quoted numbers are actually approximate. It may be less than 30 seconds in some cases.

Reviewer: It's a [weasel word](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weasel_word) (https://github.com/btford/write-good). 
Since we're specifying a range an approximation is implied.

## The xfn Runner

Composition Function runners are designed to be pluggable. Each time Crossplane
needs to invoke a Composition Function it makes a gRPC call to a configurable
endpoint. The default, reference Composition Function runner is named `xfn`.

{{< hint "note" >}}
The default runner endpoint is `unix-abstract:crossplane/fn/default.sock`. It's
possible to run Functions using a different runner, for example:

```yaml
  functions:
  - name: my-cool-Function
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xkpg.io/my-cool-Function:0.1.0
      runner:
        endpoint: unix-abstract:/your/custom/runner.sock
```

> Currently Crossplane uses unauthenticated, unencrypted gRPC requests to run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crossplane uses unauthenticated, unencrypted gRPC requests to run
```

Author: I'd prefer to leave this unchanged. It's communicating that the current state is temporary.

> Functions, so requests should not be sent over the network. Encryption and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Functions. Requests shouldn't be sent over the network. Encryption and
```

Author: I'd prefer to keep this as once sentence but I've used a contraction.

authentication will be added in a future release.
{{< /hint >}}

> `xfn` is deployed as a sidecar container within the Crossplane pod. It runs each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crossplane deploys `xfn` as a sidecar container within the Crossplane pod. It runs each
```

Author: Crossplane doesn't deploy xfn. I've rephrased to "xfn runs as..."

Composition Function as a nested [rootless container][rootless-containers].

> {{< img src="composition-functions-xfn-runner.png" alt="Crossplane running Functions using xfn via gRPC" size="tiny" >}}

Author: This doesn't seem to be rendering in the deploy preview and it's not immediately obvious to me why.

> {{< img src="composition-functions-xfn-runner.png" alt="Crossplane running Functions using xfn via gRPC" size="tiny" >}}

Author: Thanks!

> The Crossplane Helm chart deploys `xfn` with slightly elevated permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Crossplane Helm chart deploys `xfn` with elevated permissions. The modified settings are:
```

> Namely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* The [Unconfined seccomp profile][kubernetes-seccomp].
* `CAP_SETUID` and `CAP_SETGID`.

> `xfn` doesn't strictly need either of these. It's possible to run it under

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`xfn` doesn't require either setting.
```

> seccomp but doing so is onerous. You must author a custom profile that allows a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run under seccomp you must author a custom profile that allows
```

> few additional syscalls required to run containers, including `unshare`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional syscalls required to run containers, including `unshare`,
```

`mount`, and `unmount`. Refer to the [seccomp documentation][kubernetes-seccomp]
for information on how to do so.

Granting `CAP_SETUID` and `CAP_SETGID` is optional. Doing so allows `xfn` to
create slightly better rootless containers. If `xfn` is not granted these
capabilities it will not support multiple users and groups inside Composition

> Function containers; only UID and GID 0 will exist. Regardless of capabilities

Reviewer: Can we make this more precise and straight-forward? For example:

> Granting `CAP_SETUID` and `CAP_SETGID` allows `xfn` to support multiple users
> and groups inside Composition Function containers. Without this setting `xfn`
> uses UID and GID 0.

(I don't know if this edit is technically accurate) 

Write in the affirmative "it does" instead of the negative "it won't support".

> Granting `CAP_SETUID` and `CAP_SETGID` is optional. Doing so allows `xfn` to
> create slightly better rootless containers. If `xfn` is not granted these
> capabilities it will not support multiple users and groups inside Composition
> Function containers; only UID and GID 0 will exist. Regardless of capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Granting `CAP_SETUID` and `CAP_SETGID` is optional. Doing so allows `xfn` to
create slightly better rootless containers. If `xfn` is not granted these
capabilities it will not support multiple users and groups inside Composition
Function containers; only UID and GID 0 will exist.
```

```console
# TODO(negz): Update this to use crossplane-stable, not an RC build, once v1.11 has been released.

kubectl create namespace crossplane-system

helm repo add crossplane-master https://charts.crossplane.io/master/
helm repo update

# Find the latest RC build of Crossplane - e.g. 1.11.0-rc.0.274.g51a07e50
helm search repo crossplane-master/crossplane --devel

RC_VERSION="v1.11.0-rc.0.274.g51a07e50"
helm install crossplane --namespace crossplane-system crossplane-master/crossplane \
    --devel --version ${RC_VERSION} \
    --set "args={--debug,--enable-composition-functions}" \
    --set "xfn.enabled=true" \
    --set "xfn.args={--debug}"
```

The preceding Helm command installs Crossplane with the Composition Functions
feature flag enabled, and with the reference "`xfn`" Composition Function runner
deployed as a sidecar pod. You can confirm Composition Functions are enabled by
looking for a log line like:

```json
$ kubectl -n crossplane-system logs -l app=crossplane
{"level":"info","ts":1674535093.36186,"logger":"crossplane","msg":"Alpha feature enabled","flag":"EnableAlphaCompositionFunctions"}
```

You should see the log line emitted shortly after Crossplane starts.

> ## The xfn Runner

Author: I might move this to the bottom of the page. It's more informational than practical when it comes to actually wanting to use Composition Functions.

    - name: rds-instance
      base:
        apiVersion: rds.aws.upbound.io/v1beta1
        kind: Instance
        spec:
          forProvider:
            dbName: exmaple
            instanceClass: db.t3.micro
            region: us-west-2
            skipFinalSnapshot: true
            username: exampleuser
            engine: postgres
            engineVersion: "12"
      patches:
        - fromFieldPath: spec.parameters.storageGB
          toFieldPath: spec.forProvider.allocatedStorage
      connectionDetails:
        - type: FromFieldPath
          name: username
          fromFieldPath: spec.forProvider.username
        - type: FromConnectionSecretKey
          name: password
          fromConnectionSecretKey: attribute.password
  functions:
  - name: rds-instance-password
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xpkg.upbound.io/provider-aws-xfns/random-rds-password:v0.1.0
  - name: create-dbsecuritygroup
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xpkg.upbound.io/example-org/create-rds-securitygroup:v0.9.0
```

Use `kubectl explain` to explore the configuration options available when using
Composition Functions, or take a look at the example Composition below.

> {{< expand "Using `kubectl explain` on a Composition" >}}

Author: Hrm this one doesn't seem to work when rendered. Wonder if the backticks are breaking it. (They also don't render as `code`).

Author: Yeah, seems to be the same for the below expand blocks.

Reviewer: I haven't tried  backticks in the expand tag. My gut says it probably won't work.  Everything inside the expand should render as normal.

Your Function will only see composite and composed resources that _actually
exist_ in the API server in the `observed` state. The `observed` state also
includes any observed connection details.

The `desired` state of the XR and composed resources is how your Function tells
Crossplane what it should do. Crossplane 'bootstraps' the initial desired state
passed to a Function pipeline with:

* A copy of the observed state of the XR.
* A copy of the observed state of any existing composed resources.
* Any new composed resources or modifications to observed resources produced
  from the `resources` array.

When adding a new desired resource to the `desired.resources` array you don't
need to:

* Update the XR's resource references.
* Add any composition annotations like `crossplane.io/composite-resource-name`.
* Set the XR as a controller/owner reference of the desired resource.

Crossplane will take care of all of these for you. It will not do anything else,
including setting a sensible `metadata.name` for the new composed resource -
this is up to your Function.

Finally, the `results` array allows your Function to surface events and debug

> logs on the XR. Results support the following severities:

Author: It's describing the top-level objects the preceding example. There is an API field that is named "severity". This is not a logging level - I feel strongly about this.

```yaml
results:
- severity: Normal
  message: "Successfully composed GCP SQL user"
```

  how to orchestrate managed resources - not to directly orchestrate external
  systems.
* Include your function name and version in any results you return to aid in
  debugging.
* Write tests for your function. Pass it a `FunctionIO` on stdin in and ensure
  it returns the expected `FunctionIO` on stdout.
* Keep your Functions fast and lightweight. Remember that Crossplane runs them
  approximately once every 30-60 seconds.

## The xfn runner

Composition Function runners are designed to be pluggable. Each time Crossplane
needs to invoke a Composition Function it makes a gRPC call to a configurable
endpoint. The default, reference Composition Function runner is named `xfn`.

{{< hint "note" >}}
The default runner endpoint is `unix-abstract:crossplane/fn/default.sock`. It's
possible to run Functions using a different endpoint, for example:

```yaml
  functions:
  - name: my-cool-Function
    type: Container
    container:
      image: xkpg.io/my-cool-Function:0.1.0
      runner:
        endpoint: unix-abstract:/your/custom/runner.sock
```

Currently Crossplane uses unauthenticated, unencrypted gRPC requests to run

> Functions, so requests shouldn't be sent over the network. Encryption and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Functions. Requests shouldn't be sent over the network. Encryption and
```
Using "so" is indirect. Making this two statements is more obvious and direct.

authentication will be added in a future release.
{{< /hint >}}

`xfn` runs as a sidecar container within the Crossplane pod. It runs each
Composition Function as a nested [rootless container][rootless-containers].

{{< img src="master/guides/composition-functions-xfn-runner.png" alt="Crossplane running Functions using xfn via gRPC" size="tiny" >}}

The Crossplane Helm chart deploys `xfn` with:

* The [`Unconfined` seccomp profile][kubernetes-seccomp].
* The `CAP_SETUID` and `CAP_SETGID` capabilities.

The `Unconfined` seccomp profile allows Crossplane to make required syscalls

> such as `unshare` and `mount` that are not allowed by most `RuntimeDefault`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as `unshare` and `mount` that aren't allowed by most `RuntimeDefault`
```

> such as `unshare` and `mount` that are not allowed by most `RuntimeDefault`

Reviewer: >to make required syscalls
>such as `unshare` and `mount`

Are these the only required syscalls? We should either list the required syscalls or remove the "such as unshare and mount".  Either be precise "to make the following syscalls" or abstract "to make the required syscalls [end]"

Reviewer: >that are not allowed by most `RuntimeDefault` profiles.

By saying "most" and "RuntimeDefault profiles" it's creating an assumption about seccomp we need to clarify. Something like "allowed by most _container runtime default seccomp profiles_". 

How do we indicate to the reader where they should go look to find out if they are in the "most" camp or not.

Author: I don't know the exact set of syscalls that are prevented by the RuntimeDefault implementations. It's probably possible to give the reader a better idea, but I'm not sure how valuable that is in this page of documentation.

Part of the challenge here is that the `RuntimeDefault` policy means "use the default policy of your OCI runtime", and that default policy changes from runtime to runtime so it's hard to definitively say what the difference will be.

Reviewer: I would suggest removing the "such as..." part then. Mentioning some without saying what is required creates the question "well, what else?". If it's not mentioned then a reader is less likely to question.

> profiles. It's possible to run `xfn` with nearly the same restrictions as most

Reviewer: > nearly the same restrictions as most RuntimeDefault profiles

There's a lack of precision here. Either be abstract and remove "nearly" or be precise and describe what would be different.
